readme.adoc, before:

= Antora & ARC42
Andreas Offenhaeuser <https://blog.anoff.io>

> Trying to get started with Antora by publishing the ARC42 template

IMPORTANT: TODO: Rewrite these docs to ditch the submodule and Makefile

== Setup

First get some prerequisites

. Get the https://github.com/arc42/arc42-template[arc42 template] as a git submodule
. https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/install/install-antora/[install Antora]

Then run the make command:

[source,bash]
----
make build

# which runs the following commands
make clean # remove _arc42/ and build/ folders
make copy-arc42 # copy from the submodule into _arc42/ to fit antora folder structure
make build # run antora
----

The generated code is now available in `dist/`

== Notes on folder structure

`Antora` defines _components_ and _modules_. A **component** can have multiple modules that are all located in a fixed directory structure adjacent to each other. Each component must have at least one module, the _ROOT_ module.
The **playbook** (overall config of the document) references one or more git repositories that contains a component with 1+ modules.

. Antora expects all documentation to come in a _component_ (there can be only one component in a build)
. the playbook can define multiple content sources
.. each content source needs to point to a root directory of a git repo (local or remote)
.. you can use `start_path` in a https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/playbook/playbook-schema/#content-category[playfile source] to make the docs start relative to the git root
.. the repo must have at least one commit
. within this start path https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/modules/#module-overview[a module structure] is expected
.. the https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/component-descriptor/#component-descriptor-requirements[antora.yml] file defines to position of a component
.. there must be a `modules/ROOT` (uppercase) module present
.. all `.adoc` files must reside in the `modules/XYZ/pages` directory

== Attribution

- the arc42 docs are link:docs/modules/ROOT/LICENSE.txt[MIT licensed]

Commit message:

:star2: feat: update readme & try custom style

readme.adoc, after:

= Antora & ARC42
Andreas Offenhaeuser <https://blog.anoff.io>

> Getting started with Antora by publishing the ARC42 template

== Setup

First get some prerequisites

. Get the https://github.com/arc42/arc42-template[arc42 template] as a git submodule
. https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/install/install-antora/[install Antora]

Then run the make command:

[source,bash]
----
npm run dist
----

The generated code is now available in `dist/`

== Notes on folder structure

`Antora` defines _components_ and _modules_. A **component** can have multiple modules that are all located in a fixed directory structure adjacent to each other. Each component must have at least one module, the _ROOT_ module.
The **playbook** (overall config of the document) references one or more git repositories that contains a component with 1+ modules.

. Antora expects all documentation to come in a _component_ (there can be only one component in a build)
. the playbook can define multiple content sources
.. each content source needs to point to a root directory of a git repo (local or remote)
.. you can use `start_path` in a https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/playbook/playbook-schema/#content-category[playfile source] to make the docs start relative to the git root
.. the repo must have at least one commit
. within this start path https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/modules/#module-overview[a module structure] is expected
.. the https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.0/component-descriptor/#component-descriptor-requirements[antora.yml] file defines to position of a component
.. there must be a `modules/ROOT` (uppercase) module present
.. all `.adoc` files must reside in the `modules/XYZ/pages` directory

== Antora-fying

The following steps are necessary to get the arc42 template into an antora compatible format:

. move the adoc files into the antora component structure `modules/ROOT/pages/`
. create `antora.yml` with the component definition
. for having an overall file including all chapters the individual pages need to get the `:page-partial:` attribute and have a document title `=`
. add all pages to the `nav.adoc` to create a navigation menu
. custom styles in `supplemental-ui/`

== Attribution

- the arc42 docs are link:docs/modules/ROOT/LICENSE.txt[MIT licensed]
